---
title: 'A1004'
date: 2021-07-11 22:52
categories:
- PAT
tags:
- Advanced Level
---
# A1004 Counting Leaves (30 point(s))
A family hierarchy is usually presented by a pedigree tree. Your job is to count those family members who have no child.
<!-- more -->
## Input Specification:
Each input file contains one test case. Each case starts with a line containing 0<N<100, the number of nodes in a tree, and M (<N), the number of non-leaf nodes. Then M lines follow, each in the format:  
> ID K ID[1] ID[2] ... ID[K]

where ID is a two-digit number representing a given non-leaf node, K is the number of its children, followed by a sequence of two-digit ID's of its children. For the sake of simplicity, let us fix the root ID to be 01.

The input ends with N being 0. That case must NOT be processed.

## Output Specification:
For each test case, you are supposed to count those family members who have no child **for every seniority level** starting from the root. The numbers must be printed in a line, separated by a space, and there must be no extra space at the end of each line.

The sample case represents a tree with only 2 nodes, where 01 is the root and 02 is its only child. Hence on the root 01 level, there is 0 leaf node; and on the next level, there is 1 leaf node. Then we should output 0 1 in a line.

## Sample Input:
> 2 1
> 01 1 02

## Sample Output:
> 0 1


## code
{% fold 点我折叠 %}
{% codeblock lang:C++ %}
#include <iostream>
#include <cstring>
#include <algorithm>
using namespace std;
int n,m;
const int N = 110;
int h[N],e[N],ne[N],idx;
int cnt[N],max_depth;
void add(int id,int v){
    e[idx] = v,ne[idx] = h[id],h[id] = idx++;
}
void dfs(int u, int depth)
{
    if (h[u] == -1)  // 说明u是叶子节点
    {
        cnt[depth] ++ ;
        max_depth = max(max_depth, depth);
        return;
    }

    for (int i = h[u]; ~i; i = ne[i])
        dfs(e[i], depth + 1);
}
int main(){
    cin >> n >> m;
    memset(h,-1,sizeof h);
    for(int i = 0;i < m;i++){
        int id,k;
        cin >> id >> k;
        while(k--){
            int son;
            cin >> son;
            add(id,son);
        }
    }
    
    dfs(1,0);
    cout << cnt[0];
    for (int i = 1; i <= max_depth; i ++ ) cout << ' ' << cnt[i];
    cout << endl;
    return 0;
}
{% endcodeblock %}
{% endfold %}
> 结果： Accepted
