---
title: 'A1010'
date: 2021-07-11 22:52
categories:
- PAT
tags:
- Advanced Level
---
# A1010 Radix (25 point(s))
Given a pair of positive integers, for example, 6 and 110, can this equation 6 = 110 be true? The answer is **yes**, if 6 is a decimal number and 110 is a binary number.
Now for any pair of positive integers N<sub>1</sub> and N<sub>2</sub>, your task is to find the radix of one number while that of the other is given.
<!-- more -->
## Input Specification:
Each input file contains one test case. Each case occupies a line which contains 4 positive integers:
> N1 N2 tag radix
Here **N1** and **N2** each has no more than 10 digits. A digit is less than its radix and is chosen from the set { 0-9, a-z } where 0-9 represent the decimal numbers 0-9, and a-z represent the decimal numbers 10-35. The last number **radix** is the radix of **N1** if **tag** is 1, or of **N2** if **tag** is 2.

## Output Specification:
For each test case, print in one line the radix of the other number so that the equation **N1** = **N2** is true. If the equation is **Impossible**, print Impossible. If the solution is not unique, output the smallest possible radix.

## Sample Input 1:
> 6 110 1 10

## Sample Output 1:
> 2

## Sample Input 2:
> 1 ab 1 2

## Sample Output 2:
> Impossible

## code
{% fold 点我折叠 %}
{% codeblock lang:C++ %}
#include <iostream>
#include <algorithm>
using namespace std;
typedef long long LL;

LL trans(char c){
    if(c <= '9') return c-'0';
    return c-'a' + 10;
}

LL getNum(string N1,LL r){
    LL n = 0;
    for(auto c:N1){
        if((double)n*r + trans(c) > 1e16) return 1e18;
        n = n * r + trans(c);  
    }
    return n;
}

int main(){
    string N1,N2;
    int tag,radix;
    cin >> N1 >> N2 >> tag >> radix;
    if(tag == 2) swap(N1,N2);
    LL n1 = getNum(N1,radix);
    LL l = 0,r = n1 + 1;
    for(auto c:N2) l = max(l,trans(c)+1); //确定二分左边界，至少大于n2中最大数+1
    while(l < r){
        LL mid = l + r >> 1;//二分中间
        if(getNum(N2,mid) >= n1) r = mid;
        else l = mid + 1;
        
    }
    if(getNum(N2,r) != n1) cout << "Impossible" << endl;
    else cout << r << endl;
    return 0;
}
{% endcodeblock %}
{% endfold %}
> 结果： Accepted
