---
title: 'A1020'
date: 2021-07-11 22:52
categories:
- PAT
tags:
- Advanced Level
---
# A1020 Tree Traversals (25 point(s))
Suppose that all the keys in a binary tree are distinct positive integers. Given the postorder and inorder traversal sequences, you are supposed to output the level order traversal sequence of the corresponding binary tree.
<!-- more -->
## Input Specification:
Each input file contains one test case. For each case, the first line gives a positive integer N (≤30), the total number of nodes in the binary tree. The second line gives the postorder sequence and the third line gives the inorder sequence. All the numbers in a line are separated by a space.

## Output Specification:
For each test case, print in one line the level order traversal sequence of the corresponding binary tree. All the numbers in a line must be separated by exactly one space, and there must be no extra space at the end of the line.

## Sample Input:
> 7
> 2 3 1 5 7 6 4
> 1 2 3 4 5 6 7

## Sample Output:
> 4 1 6 3 5 7 2


## code
{% fold 点我折叠 %}
{% codeblock lang:C++ %}
#include <iostream>
#include <algorithm>
#include <unordered_map>
using namespace std;
const int N = 40;
unordered_map<int,int> l,r,pos;
int n;
int inorder[N],postorder[N];
int q[N];
int build(int il,int ir,int pl,int pr){
    int root = postorder[pr];
    int k = pos[root];
    if(il < k) l[root] = build(il,k-1,pl,pl + (k - 1 - il));//传入中序遍历根节点K的左子树il--k-1，传入后序遍历左子树(左右根)故为pl--(pl+左子树长度)
    if(k < ir) r[root] = build(k + 1,ir,pl + (k - 1 - il) + 1,pr - 1);
    return root;
}
void bfs(int root)
{
    int hh = 0, tt = 0;
    q[0] = root;

    while (hh <= tt)
    {
        int t = q[hh ++ ];
        if (l.count(t)) q[ ++ tt] = l[t];
        if (r.count(t)) q[ ++ tt] = r[t];
    }

    cout << q[0];
    for (int i = 1; i < n; i ++ ) cout << ' ' << q[i];
    cout << endl;
}
int main(){
    cin >> n;
    for(int i = 0;i < n;i ++) cin >> postorder[i];
    for(int i = 0;i < n;i ++){
       cin >> inorder[i];
       pos[inorder[i]] = i; //记录每个节点的数组位置
    } 
    
    int root = build(0,n-1,0,n-1);
    bfs(root);

    return 0;
}
{% endcodeblock %}
{% endfold %}
> 结果： Accepted

## BFS

